growRois

This is an imageJ plugin for growing (dilating) ROIs (=regions of interest) as listed in ImageJ's ROI manager. To install the plugin, 
download the growRois_.jar, and place it in the "plugins" folder of your ImageJ (or Fiji) installation. After restarting ImageJ, the plugin 
should be available under Plugins > GrowRois > Dilate preselected ROIS

The source code is best imported in Eclipse by using the import from github function with the URL https://github.com/tbgitoo/growRois

Regarding usage, a typical workflow in ImageJ involves first selection of ROIs in the ROI manager, either manually, or more typically, 
with ImageJ's "Analyze > Analyze Particles..." command.

Once the collection of ROIs established, the plugin can be launched for growing the ROIs by a given amount of pixels, with or without 
overlap with neighboring ROIS.

There are some additional options. First, a binary mask can be used to limit the growth of the ROIs. For this, the mask 
(accessible pixels 255, background 0) needs to be loaded before the plugin is launched and selected in the dialog. Second, an additional
greyscale image can be used for watershedding. In this case, the extension of the ROIs follows a watershedding algorithm, with expansion
first in the darkest regions with lowest numerical value and then progressively brighter regions of the greyscale guide image.

The inner workings of the plugin are somewhere between watershed (as extensively implemented in MorpholibJ) and ballooning of preselected 
seeds (available in Fiji through Plugins > Segmentation > Balloon ): regions of interest are determined as polygonal regions, but are grown 
region-by-region by dilation of 1 pixel. The results are similar, but not identical to seeded watershedding. The difference is the order of 
pixel assignment (region-by-region vs. systematically through the pixels in watershedding). This avoids preferential orientation artifacts 
that one sometimes sees in pixel-based watershedding (see "User guide growRois Plugin.pdf" for details).

A more detailed description and instructions are available in the user manual. ("User guide growRois Plugin.pdf")
